Version 4.3.0
=============

Released: March 18, 2026

This release introduces three major features: a database handler for agent state bodies,
migration of the configuration format from INI to YAML, and a website crawler utility
with an accompanying example agent.

New Features
------------

DB Handler
~~~~~~~~~~

Agents can now interact with relational databases through the new ``DBHandler`` class.
It provides structured, type-safe access to one or more SQL databases directly from
within state body functions, with support for both raw SQL and natural language queries
translated to SQL via an LLM.

Configuration Migration: INI → YAML
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The agent configuration format has been fully migrated from ``.ini`` files to ``.yaml`` files.

This allows for a more hierarchical and expressive configuration structure, better support for complex data types, 
and improved readability. All existing configuration keys and values are preserved, but they are now organised 
in a nested YAML format instead of flat INI sections.

Website Crawler and Web Crawl Agent
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A new utility function ``crawl_website`` performs a breadth-first crawl of a website
and returns the text content of each visited page, either as raw HTML or converted
Markdown. This is primarily intended for building lightweight knowledge bases to ground
LLM responses (retrieval-augmented generation over website content).

An example agent ``web_crawl_agent`` demonstrates how to use this utility to fetch and process website content.


Breaking Changes
----------------

- ``config.ini`` files are no longer supported. All agent configurations must be
  migrated to ``config.yaml``. See the migration guide above and the updated example
  configuration files in ``besser/agent/test/examples/``.
