Version 4.4.0
=============

Released: April 30, 2026

This release introduces the **reasoning extension**: an LLM-driven
plan -> act -> observe state body, plus the primitives it consumes —
tools, skills and workspaces. See the new :doc:`reasoning wiki
section <../wiki/reasoning>` and the
:doc:`reasoning_agent example <../examples/reasoning_agent>`.

New Features
------------

Reasoning state
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A predefined state whose body runs an LLM tool-calling loop. Register it
with :func:`~baf.library.state.reasoning_state_library.new_reasoning_state`.
Built-in *task planning* (``add_tasks`` / ``complete_task`` / ``skip_task``)
keeps multi-step requests tracked: the loop only finalises when every
planned task is resolved, otherwise the orchestrator pushes back.

Tools
~~~~~

Plain Python callables registered via
:meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.new_tool` (or :meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.load_tools`
for bulk-load from a module/folder, or the ``@agent.tool`` decorator).
Signatures, type hints and docstrings are auto-introspected into the
OpenAI / Anthropic function-calling JSON schema — no schema written by
hand. ``LLMOpenAI`` gains :meth:`~baf.nlp.llm.llm.LLM.predict_with_tools`
for native tool-calling.

Skills
~~~~~~

Named markdown playbooks injected into the system prompt of the reasoning
state. Loaded from a file, a string, or a folder of ``.md`` files via
:meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.new_skill` / :meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.load_skills`.
YAML-style frontmatter (``name``, ``description``) supported.

Workspaces
~~~~~~~~~~

Filesystem paths the LLM can browse and (optionally) modify on demand —
a Claude Code-style alternative to RAG. Register with
:meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.new_workspace`. Auto-registers universal
``list_directory`` / ``read_file`` tools, plus ``write_file`` /
``create_file`` / ``delete_file`` when at least one workspace is
``writable=True``. Path traversal outside the workspace root is rejected.

Streaming and persistence
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Every observable reasoning event (LLM tool calls, tool results, task list
mutations, push-back, max-steps) is streamed to the UI through the new
:meth:`~baf.platforms.websocket.websocket_platform.WebSocketPlatform.reply_reasoning_step`
method, with task-list snapshots flowing on the parallel
:meth:`~baf.platforms.websocket.websocket_platform.WebSocketPlatform.reply_task_list_update`
channel. Events bracketed by ``reasoning_started`` / ``reasoning_finished``.
A dedicated ``reasoning_step`` database table stores them for session replay.

Improvements
------------

- ``baf/library/tool/`` — new package collecting predefined tool families
  (workspace tools, task tools).
- ``Agent`` API now follows the ``add_X`` / ``new_X`` pattern uniformly:
  :meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.add_tool` / :meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.new_tool`,
  :meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.add_skill` / :meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.new_skill`,
  :meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.add_workspace` / :meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.new_workspace`
  — mirroring the existing :meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.add_intent` /
  :meth:`~baf.core.agent.Agent.new_intent` pair.

